[MASKED HTML EXTRACTED]
Document ID: record_763
Original URL: https://repositorio.ufscar.br/handle/20.500.14289/18273

Platforms based on semiconductors for application in quantum computing root.skip-to-content Comunidades e Coleções Todo o repositório Estatísticas Sobre English العربية বাংলা Català Čeština Deutsch Ελληνικά Español Suomi Français Gàidhlig ગુજરાતી हिंदी Magyar Italiano Қазақ Latviešu मराठी Nederlands Polski Português Português do Brasil Русский Srpski (lat) Српски Svenska Türkçe Yкраї́нська Tiếng Việt Entrar Entrar Esqueceu sua senha? Início Campus São Carlos Teses e Dissertações Platforms based on semiconductors for application in quantum computing Platforms based on semiconductors for application in quantum computing Carregando... Arquivos Platforms_based_on_semiconductors_for_application_in_quantum_computing_12072023.pdf (3.94 MB) Data 2023-06-02 Autores Cunha, Iann Título da Revista ISSN da Revista Título de Volume Editor Universidade Federal de São Carlos Resumo This thesis is composed of three parts. In the first part, a study of transport in semiconductor nanowires is carried out, in which the multichannel scattering occurs in a certain finite region, providing a reentrance in the conductance. This reentrance is analyzed in zero magnetic field configuration for cases where there is a strong spin-orbit coupling and for a structural deformation in the nanowire, where it suffers a localized expansion. Furthermore, both cases are also investigated in the presence of a magnetic field, where the reentrance also appears in higher energy channels. In the second part of this thesis, machine learning is applied to successfully determine physical parameters of two qubits in coupled semiconductor quantum dots, with the aim of locally measuring the qubits and reducing the necessary measurements performed in the laboratory. In the third part of the thesis, the study focuses on the interaction of distant qubits formed by quantum dots. These qubits are modeled by a spin chain with nearest neighbor interactions and the goal is to implement SWAP and CNOT quantum logic gates in this spin network. Finally, by using SWAP gates, it is possible to propagate quantum information along the spin chain. When noise effects are taken into account, there is a relevant difference in the order of application of the logic gates, which leads to an increase or decrease in the effectiveness of the application of quantum gates. Descrição Palavras-chave Semiconductors , Nanowire , Spin qubits , Rashba , Quantum computation , Quantum dots Citação CUNHA, Iann. Platforms based on semiconductors for application in quantum computing. 2023. Tese (Doutorado em Física) – Universidade Federal de São Carlos, São Carlos, 2023. Disponível em: https://repositorio.ufscar.br/handle/20.500.14289/18273. URI https://repositorio.ufscar.br/handle/20.500.14289/18273 Coleções Teses e Dissertações item.page.endorsement item.page.review item.page.supplemented item.page.referenced Licença Creative Commons Exceto quando indicado de outra forma, a licença deste item é descrita como Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Brazil Página do item completo Siga as redes sociais do SIBi Contato Repositório Institucional da UFSCar (RI UFSCar) Av. Biblioteca Comunitária, Campus São Carlos Rod. Washington Luís, km 235 - SP-310 São Carlos, SP, 13565-905 (16) 3351-8477 Email: repositorio@ufscar.br Acessos ao repositorio.ufscar.br DSpace software copyright © 2002-2026 LYRASIS Configurações de Cookies Acessibilidade Política de Privacidade Termos de Uso Enviar uma Sugestão...